[CN-520] Initial version of Jet tutorial (#1)
hazelcast-guides/hazelcast-platform-operator-jet: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/hazelcast-platform-operator-jet.adoc

* Deployed xref:operator:ROOT:index.adoc[Hazelcast Platform Operator]
* Created blob storage and access credentials in one of the cloud providers: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[AWS] - https://cloud.google.com/storage/[GCP] - https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/storage/blobs/[Azure]

== Step 1. Deploy Jet Pipeline JAR to external storage and create secret for accessing the external storage

. Build Jet Pipeline JAR

+
[source, shell]
----
cd jet-pipeline
mvn package
----

. Upload the JAR to the cloud provider storage blob/bucket that you have already created:

+
[tabs]
====

S3::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
aws s3 cp jet-pipeline/target/jet-pipeline-run-1.0.0.jar s3://<BUCKET_NAME>
----
--

GCS::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
gsutil cp jet-pipeline/target/jet-pipeline-run-1.0.0.jar gs://<BUCKET_NAME>
----
--

ABS::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
az storage blob upload --account-name <ACCOUNT_NAME> --container-name <CONTAINER_NAME> --file jet-pipeline/target/jet-pipeline-run-1.0.0.jar
----
--

====

. Create Secret for Bucket credentials
+
Run one of the following command to create the secret according to the cloud provider you want to backup.

+
[tabs]
====

> S3::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS::
```

+
--
[source,bash]
----
kubectl create secret generic <SECRET-NAME> --from-literal=region=<region> \
	--from-literal=access-key-id=<access-key-id> \
	--from-literal=secret-access-key=<secret-access-key>
----
--

> GCS::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GCP::
```

+
--
[source,bash]
----
kubectl create secret generic <SECRET-NAME> --from-file=google-credentials-path=<service_account_json_file>
----
--

Azure::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
kubectl create secret generic <SECRET-NAME> \
	--from-literal=storage-account=<storage-account> \
	--from-literal=storage-key=<storage-key>
----
--

====

== Step 2. Start the Hazelcast Cluster

> . Create a license secret

Reviewer: This section is not needed as the example can be run on OS version.

+
Create a secret with your link:http://trialrequest.hazelcast.com/[Hazelcast Enterprise License].
+
[source, shell]
----
kubectl create secret generic hazelcast-license-key --from-literal=license-key=<hz-license-key>
----

. Create the Hazelcast Cluster
+
Run the following command to create the Hazelcast cluster with Jet Engine configured.
+
[source, shell]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: hazelcast.com/v1alpha1
kind: Hazelcast
metadata:
  name: my-hazelcast
spec:
  clusterSize: 3

>   licenseKeySecret: hazelcast-license-key

Reviewer: not necessary either

      at com.hazelcast.jet.impl.MasterJobContext.getErrorFromResponses(MasterJobContext.java:653)
      at com.hazelcast.jet.impl.MasterJobContext.lambda$invokeStartExecution$12(MasterJobContext.java:576)
      at com.hazelcast.jet.impl.MasterContext.lambda$invokeOnParticipant$3(MasterContext.java:376)
      at com.hazelcast.jet.impl.util.ExceptionUtil.lambda$withTryCatch$0(ExceptionUtil.java:182)
      at com.hazelcast.spi.impl.AbstractInvocationFuture$WhenCompleteNode.lambda$execute$0(AbstractInvocationFuture.java:1570)
      at java.base/java.util.concurrent.ForkJoinTask$RunnableExecuteAction.exec(ForkJoinTask.java:1426)
      at java.base/java.util.concurrent.ForkJoinTask.doExec(ForkJoinTask.java:290)
      at java.base/java.util.concurrent.ForkJoinPool$WorkQueue.topLevelExec(ForkJoinPool.java:1020)
      at java.base/java.util.concurrent.ForkJoinPool.scan(ForkJoinPool.java:1656)
      at java.base/java.util.concurrent.ForkJoinPool.runWorker(ForkJoinPool.java:1594)
      at java.base/java.util.concurrent.ForkJoinWorkerThread.run(ForkJoinWorkerThread.java:183)
----

== Clean Up

To clean up the created resources remove the all Custom Resources and secrets.

[source, shell]
----

> kubectl delete secret <SECRET-NAME> hazelcast-license-key

Reviewer: not necessary either

= Run a Data Pipeline Using Jet with Hazelcast Platform Operator
:page-layout: tutorial
:page-product: operator
:page-categories: Cloud Native
:page-lang: go, java, node, python
:page-enterprise: true
:page-est-time: 20 mins
:github-directory: https://github.com/hazelcast-guides/hazelcast-platform-operator-jet
:description: Learn how to run a data pipeline in Hazelcast using Jet.

{description}

== Context
In this tutorial, you'll do the following:

- Build and deploy a custom Jet pipeline implementation to cloud storage.

- Deploy Hazelcast with the Jet engine configured.

> - Start the Jet pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Start the Jet pipeline.
```

- Check the Jet pipeline.

- Cancel the Jet pipeline.

== Before You Begin

You need the following:

* Running https://kubernetes.io/[Kubernetes] cluster
* Kubernetes command-line tool, https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl[kubectl]
* Maven command-line tool, https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi[mvn]

> * Deployed xref:operator:ROOT:index.adoc[Hazelcast Platform Operator]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Deployed xref:operator:ROOT:index.adoc[Hazelcast Platform Operator version 5.3 or above]
```
I think it would be good to add this so that users don't get halfway through and find out they are using the right version.

Author: Required version is for Hazelcast not for the operator.

Author: Sorry for misleading information. You are right we need to add version requirement to operator but not 5.3 it should be 5.8. I'll update it

* Blob storage and access credentials on one of the following cloud providers: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[AWS], https://cloud.google.com/storage/[GCP], https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/storage/blobs/[Azure]

== Step 1. Deploy the Jet Pipeline JAR to Cloud Storage

In this step, you’ll build the Jet pipeline JAR from the tutorial’s GitHub repository, and upload it to your cloud provider.

> . Clone the Sample Project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Clone the sample project.
```

+

> All the code for this project is available on GitHub. In this step, you'll clone the project and learn how it works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
Don't think you need this line.

+
[tabs]
====
HTTPS::
+
--
```bash
git clone https://github.com/hazelcast-guides/hazelcast-platform-operator-jet.git

cd hazelcast-platform-operator-jet
```
--
SSH::
+
--
```bash
git clone git@github.com:hazelcast-guides/hazelcast-platform-operator-jet.git

cd hazelcast-platform-operator-jet
```
--
====

+
The sample code for this tutorial is in the link:{github-directory}/tree/master/jet-pipeline/src/main/java/org/example/run[`jet-pipeline/src/main/java/org/example/run/`] directory:

> . Build the Jet pipeline JAR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Build the Jet pipeline JAR.
```

+
[source, shell]
----
cd jet-pipeline
mvn package
----

> . Upload the Jet pipeline JAR to the storage blob/bucket of your cloud provider, replacing the placeholder values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Upload the Jet pipeline JAR to the storage blob/bucket of your cloud provider, replacing the placeholder values.
```

----
az storage blob upload --account-name <ACCOUNT_NAME> --container-name <CONTAINER_NAME> --file jet-pipeline/target/jet-pipeline-run-1.0.0.jar
----
--

====

. Create a secret for your cloud storage by running one of the following commands. Remember to replace the placeholder values.

+
[tabs]
====

AWS::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
kubectl create secret generic <SECRET-NAME> --from-literal=region=<region> \
	--from-literal=access-key-id=<access-key-id> \
	--from-literal=secret-access-key=<secret-access-key>
----
--

GCP::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
kubectl create secret generic <SECRET-NAME> --from-file=google-credentials-path=<service_account_json_file>
----
--

Azure::
+
--
[source,bash]
----
kubectl create secret generic <SECRET-NAME> \
	--from-literal=storage-account=<storage-account> \
	--from-literal=storage-key=<storage-key>
----
--

====

== Step 2. Start the Hazelcast Cluster

. Run this command to create a Hazelcast cluster with the Jet engine configured.

+
[source, shell]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: hazelcast.com/v1alpha1
kind: Hazelcast
metadata:
  name: my-hazelcast
spec:
  clusterSize: 3
  jet:
    resourceUploadEnabled: true
EOF
----
+

> NOTE: You need to use Hazelcast 5.3 or further versions to able to submit JetJobs with the Hazelcast Platform Operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: You need to use Hazelcast version 5.3 or above to submit JetJobs with the Hazelcast Platform Operator.
```

Author: I'll update it as you suggested with additional condition. 
It'll be:
NOTE: If you want to specify the Hazelcast version, you need to use Hazelcast 5.3 or above to submit JetJobs with the Hazelcast Platform Operator.

. Run the following command to start the Jet job you have already deployed.

+
Replace the <BUCKET-URI> with the appropriate sample bucket URI for your cloud provider:
+
- s3://hazelcast-jet-pipeline
- gs://hazelcast-jet-pipeline
- azblob://hazelcast-jet-pipeline

+
[source, shell]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: hazelcast.com/v1alpha1
kind: JetJob
metadata:
  name: my-jet-job
spec:
  hazelcastResourceName: my-hazelcast
  state: Running
  jarName: jet-pipeline-run-1.0.0.jar
  bucketConfig:
    bucketURI: "<BUCKET-URI>"
    secretName: <SECRET-NAME>
EOF
----

. Check status of the Jet job.

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get jetjob my-jet-job -w
----
+
The output will look something like this. Wait until the `Running` status is displayed.
+
[source,bash]
----
NAME         STATUS    ID                   SUBMISSIONTIME         COMPLETIONTIME
my-jet-job   Starting  0
my-jet-job   Running   732187341048774657   2023-07-14T10:51:06Z
----

. To see the output of the Jet pipeline in the logs, run the following command.

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/name=hazelcast -c hazelcast | grep sequence
----
+

> The logs of Jet Pipeline is displayed in the output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The logs of the Jet pipeline are displayed in the output.
```

{"time":"2023-07-14T10:51:09,679", "logger": "com.hazelcast.jet.impl.connector.WriteLoggerP", "level": "INFO", "msg": "[172.17.0.6]:5702 [dev] [5.3.1] [my-jet-job/loggerSink#0] SimpleEvent(timestamp=10:51:09.000, sequence=3) "}
{"time":"2023-07-14T10:51:10,682", "logger": "com.hazelcast.jet.impl.connector.WriteLoggerP", "level": "INFO", "msg": "[172.17.0.6]:5702 [dev] [5.3.1] [my-jet-job/loggerSink#0] SimpleEvent(timestamp=10:51:10.000, sequence=4) "}
{"time":"2023-07-14T10:51:11,678", "logger": "com.hazelcast.jet.impl.connector.WriteLoggerP", "level": "INFO", "msg": "[172.17.0.6]:5702 [dev] [5.3.1] [my-jet-job/loggerSink#0] SimpleEvent(timestamp=10:51:11.000, sequence=5) "}
{"time":"2023-07-14T10:51:12,677", "logger": "com.hazelcast.jet.impl.connector.WriteLoggerP", "level": "INFO", "msg": "[172.17.0.6]:5702 [dev] [5.3.1] [my-jet-job/loggerSink#0] SimpleEvent(timestamp=10:51:12.000, sequence=6) "}
....
....
----

. Now, cancel the Jet job by setting the `spec.state` to `Canceled`. Use one of the following options.

+

> a) Run the following command to cancel the JetJob.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a) Run the following command to cancel the JetJob.
```
Don't think we can have two options that say exactly the same thing. Needs to say something like 'Run the following command to cancel the JetJob, using ????.

Author: Yes you are right? Let me update them.

+
[source, shell]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: hazelcast.com/v1alpha1
kind: JetJob
metadata:
  name: my-jet-job
spec:
  hazelcastResourceName: my-hazelcast
  state: Canceled
  jarName: jet-pipeline-run-1.0.0.jar
  bucketConfig:
    bucketURI: "<BUCKET-URI>"
    secretName: <SECRET-NAME>
EOF
----
+

> b) Run the following command to cancel the JetJob

Reviewer 2: As per previous comment.

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl patch jetjob my-jet-job -p '{"spec":{"state":"Canceled"}}' --type=merge
----
+

> . Now check the Jet job status to make sure the job has cancelled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Now check the Jet job status to make sure the job was cancelled.
```

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get jetjob my-jet-job
----
+

> The output shows the status is now `ExecutionFailed`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output shows the Jet job status as `ExecutionFailed`.
```
